---
title: "Book Review: \"How to Fail at Almost Everything and Still Win Big\""
date: 2021-07-23T22:36:47+07:00
draft: false
images:
categories:
tags:
  - book-review
---

I recently finished the book, and resonated a lot with the wisdom within, hence
the post's existence. The book was written by Scott Adams, who is the author of
Dilbert. He seemed like the big shot if I were American (or despite of being
Vietnamese, dived deep enough into the culture).

The book is splitted into 38 chapters, with varried lengths and topics. One main
theme that I found useful was: "system versus goal". I kind of lived that way in
my life without knowing the words.

The term "system" does not mean an information system or anything as complex. It
is a set of rules that you follow to improve yourself everyday. "Goal" is
something more specific, like you will be a millionaire before 30, or lost 30
pounds.

The question is: after finishing a goal, what will you do after? A set of goals
seems tiring. This is where you need a system. Instead of "being a millionaire",
do "expand knowledge, find better jobs, and have better saving plans". Instead
of "lost 30 pounds", do "eat cleaner". You can imagine it. Try improving instead
of being fixed on a specific aim.

Another useful topic is on what people should learn, no matter what is their
occupation. The list is long, but I only can recall:

- Public speaking
- Psychology

The first item seems daunting, but... manageable. You do not need to earn money
on being a public speaker. Do communicate clearly during your start up pitch is
useful enough. Do present a seminar to your teammates is useful enough. Do speak
well with a single stranger is useful enough.

The second item feels vague, but not that vague if you understand the
application. Understanding your customer helps a lot with making money (in
sales, or even in the implementing of a... system, an information one).
Understanding women (or men) helps you attracting them.

In conclusion, I highly recommend the book to anyone, as long as they are open
enough for some "small" profanity (concluding that extremely successful people
are mostly by luck; their systems were good enough, and they will be rich
regardless, however).
